>> Sean Larkin: What I wanna do now,
I guess before we go further
is actually read at how the webpack
runtime code has changed, right?
Cuz how are we supporting this?
How does this happen?
So what I wanna do is actually, I'm gonna
jump in and I'm gonna set mode to none.
>> Sean Larkin: Let's see, mode none,
oops.
>> Sean Larkin: Let's see,
yarn webpack.
>> Sean Larkin: It's just,
this should give us that mode none.
Let's see what it looks like in the dist.
Yeah, cool, very cool.
Okay, I'm just gonna wipe this dist
folder and rebuild again, just so
it's a little easier to see.
And let's hide this, and
we can just walk through this code again.
>> Sean Larkin: All right,
so you see the output here is not
only just a single bundle, but
there's two bundles that we emit.
So the code here has changed slightly.
And the reason why we change it is because
we care about this code
coverage percentage.
So we're not gonna include pieces of the
runtime if you're not using all the full
features of webpack like code splitting,
or cachability and things like that.
So let's step through this code again.
And so we have a function here that's
called webpackJsonpCallback, right?
And it takes data.
And basically what we do,
this data's gonna be an array.
And it's gonna be passing through what
we call chunkIds, and then more modules.
So you can think this might
be an array of modules,
similar that we're used to seeing,
like in our IIFE parameters, right?
So even if I went down,
just like, we have our IIFE.
Let's make this a little bigger.
>> Sean Larkin: Okay,
and so we still have an array of modules,
nothing has changed there.
But we do have this new function, and so
it looks like we define some
additional information.
And we say for every chunkId, or
for the amount of chunkIds we have,
basically it's gonna say,
well, if installedChunks.
So now we not only have a module cache,
but we have a chunk cache, right?
And it says resolves.push,
and it adds a resolve.
And then it sets initial ID for
the installed chunks.
>> Sean Larkin: And then we basically say,
well, for each module in this array of
modules, so we can tell it is an array.
We basically check and
see does this have, does this ID exist?
So just basically verifying that for
the IDs that are mapped to our
bundle of modules, or the array of
modules, we just check and make sure.
And then let's scroll down a little bit.
And you can see, here's the original code
that we read, so it's the module cache.
The most important function though is
this right here, __webpack_require__.e.
So this is the lazy
loading transformation.
So this is what we convert,
a dynamic import, in our code.
It gets transformed into
__webpack_require__.e.
And so
what you can see here is that we take and
perform a JSONP export.
Or not a JSONP export, but
a JSONP fetch of another file.
So we're actually taking and
finding the head, we create a script tag.
And then we actually
set a JSONP request.
And then we append that
script to the actual
head.
>> Sean Larkin: And
then since this could be an array,
then we do Promise.all.
So what does this actually look like when
code splitting occurs though, right?
Because we haven't actually seen
what gets transformed for it.
And then we have the single global
variable called webpackJsonp.
It's defined as an array by default,
it's in the global scope.
And this is where we actually register
other chunks in what we
call the chunk cache.
[COUGH] So let's take a look
at where it's actually loaded.
So here's our getFooter, and
that's still a function that returns
__webpack_require__.e, which is a promise.
Now this number is the chunk ID.
So this is the chunk ID that it's
trying to pull from the cache.
And then what we do is then we take
the export inside of the promise and
we do webpack_require.
So to actually find this,
when you see this ID, it's
actually referring to by default the chunk
ID for the other bundle that's created.
So this file hasn't actually been
added yet onto the page, right?
Only until it performs that
__webpack_require__.e, and
it looks for chunkId 1, does it actually
add the script tag into your head,
and then load this into the available
modules in the available chunks.
And so when this happens now,
it's being loaded just like
any other array of modules.
Or in this case, we haven't set,
I believe it's set as an object, right?
Yep, it goes object, and then the IDs.
So whenever we're lazy loading, we're just
accessing modules that have been just
separated into a separate
file asynchronously.
Do you have any questions so far?
Does that make a little bit
more sense in terms of how this
behavior actually happens?
Okay, so
I don't wanna say it's not magical.
Cuz I mean, I love it, and it's really
amazing how we make it possible even
across different module formats and
things.
But this is really,
this is the permeative of CodeSplain.
That's it,
we are able to create asynchronous bundles
that can load on demand.
And you don't have to control
any of the on demand loading.
It's part of your code, it's imperative.
All you're doing is just using that
function, using the dynamic import.
And the beauty is that,
let's say ten years down the road,
webpack's not here and you rip it out.
This is still a browser
specified standard, right?
So that's kind of in a nutshell,
I would say, code splitting.
Now there's gonna be,
I wanna show examples of
another type of code splitting.
And this is static code splitting, right,
because we're just providing a path
to the actual module itself.
And this is the vanilla way that you
would lazy load any of your code.
When anybody talks about code splitting or
lazy loading bundles,
this is the technique.
And so now that you actually know how
to do this, when you think about it,
now you can tie together the concept of,
well wait, if I’m
not using 62% of my code,
that entire chunk,
that entire set of modules or unused code,
that’s something that you should be
instead lazy loading when that
functionality’s actually needed, right?
And a lot of the time,
it just adds up to being a really large
library that you don't need upfront.
Actually, that's a great, that should
be one thing that I wanna showcase.
So if you haven't followed along,
I'm just gonna check this branch out.
But what we're gonna do next is
take a really heavy library, and
just load it asynchronously.